Add a lightweight scheduler subsystem (#60932)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/services/ll_sched/index.rst

.. _ll_sched_api:

Low Latency (LL) Scheduler
##########################

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 2

The LL scheduler API provides a common interface to manipulate tasks with
different scheduling algorithms. It is based on a reduced subset of the
LL scheduler from the audio SOF project. At the current time, it only supports
a single scheduler that readies tasks (aka threads) to run based solely on the
timer interrupt. The order in which these tasks execute is still handled by

> the classic Zephyr scheduling algorithm which is priority based.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the classic Zephyr scheduling algorithm, which is priority-based.
```

Reviewer: outdated

Usage
*****

Initializing the LL Scheduler
=============================

Before the LL scheduler can be used, it must be initialized by invoking
:c:func:`ll_sched_init`. The following code initializes the LL scheduler.

.. code-block:: c

    /* Initialize the LL scheduler */

    ll_sched_init();

Specifying the Scheduling Domain
================================

> When specifying the scheduling two things must be done. First, the scheduling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When specifying the scheduling, two things must be done. First, the scheduling
```

domain must be initialized--this need only be done once. Second, a scheduler
must be initialized to use the previously created domain. As the scheduler
is tied to the current CPU, the routine :c:func:`ll_sched_scheduler_init` must
be invoked on each CPU that wants to use this domain.

The following code builds upon the example above to both specify the scheduling
domain (timer) and register it with the LL scheduler on the current CPU.

.. code-block:: c

    struct ll_sched_domain *domain;

    /* Initialize the timer scheduling domain */

> 

Reviewer: delete

    domain = ll_timer_domain_init(0);

    /* Create a scheduler on the current CPU based on this domain */

> 

Reviewer: delete

    ll_sched_scheduler_init(domain);

Creating a Task
===============

A task is created using the routine :c:func:`ll_sched_task_init`.

The following code builds upon the example above to create a task that runs
in the timer domain on CPU 0 at priority 4.

.. code-block:: c

    struct ll_sched_task task;

    static enum ll_sched_task_state task_fn(void *arg)
    {
        ...
        return LL_SCHED_TASK_STATE_RESCHEDULE;
    }

    void create_periodic_task(void)
    {
        int  status;

        ...
        status = ll_sched_task_init(&task, NULL, LL_SCHED_TIMER, 4,
                                    task_fn, arg, 0, 0);
        assert(status == 0);

        ...
    }

Scheduling a Task
=================
A task can be scheduled to execute using :c:func:`ll_sched_task_schedule`.

The following code builds upon the example above to schedule a task. The
task will be scheduled to execute according to the domain with which it is
registered. That is, when registered with the LL timer domain, it will be
scheduled to execute every CONFIG_LL_SCHEDULER_TIMER_PERIOD microseconds.

> It is incumbent upon the system designer to register tasks with this that
> do not violate this timing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The system designer must ensure that registered tasks do not violate this timing.
```

Reviewer: outdated

a task.

.. code-block:: c

    ...
    int  status;

    status = ll_sched_task_cancel(&task);
    assert(status == 0);
    ...

Advanced Topics
***************

Memory Allocation
=================

By default, the LL scheduler allocates memory for the various structures that
it needs at runtime from the heap. However, it is recognized that this default
behavior may not fit all users' requirements. As a result, a project developer
may provide their own memory allocation routines by overriding the following
routines to provide their own custom implementations:

.. code-block:: c

  void *ll_sched_sys_alloc(size_t size, bool zero);
  void *ll_sched_sys_shared_alloc(size_t size, bool zero);
  void ll_sched_free(void *ptr);

Suggested Uses
**************

The LL scheduler can be useful to track and manipulate tasks of relatively
short duration that need to be executed at regular intervals.

Configuration Options
*********************

Related configuration options:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LL_SCHEDULER`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LL_SCHEDULER_TIMER`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LL_SCHEDULER_TIMER_PERIOD`
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LL_SCHEDULER_LOG_CYCLE_STATISTICS`

> * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LL_SCHEDULER_TIMER_TASK_STACK_SIZE`

Reviewer: add API reference, along the lines of

```
API Reference
*************

.. doxygengroup:: HERE_THE_NEW_DOXYGEN_GROUP
```
